README.md, before:

# Or Tool Tutorial 1

## Description
The OR tools is a solver problem of optimization:

- Vehicle Routing: The most important for deliver packages
- Scheduling: problem for complex tasks
- Bin Packing: Pack as many objects

This use algorithms to narrow down the search set for find the optimal.

Problems that solve:

- Contraint Programming: Solve mathematics problems.
- Linear and mixed-integer program: Problems based into configuration of single problems.
- Vehicle Routing: Library for indentifying best vehicle routes given constraints.
- Graph algorithms: short path into graph

This find the best solution out of large set of possible solutions

Each of optimization problems bas the following elements:
- The objective: The quantity to optimize -> for example minimize cost.
- The contraints: Restrictions on the set of possible solutions.

The first step for solve an optimization problem is identifying this two elements.

1. Optimizing minimize

For each language, the basic steps for setting up and solving a problem are the same:
- Import the required libraries.
- Declare the solver.
- Create the variables.
- Define the constraints.
- Define the objective function.
- Invoke the solver and display the results.


**Vehicle Routing**
One of the  most important application of optimization is vehicle routing the goal is to find the best routes for a fleet of vehicles visiting a set of locations.

The most famous routing problem is the Traveling Salesman Problem(TSP): This find the shortest route for slaesman who needs to visit customers at different locations and return to locations and return to the starting point. This can represented by a graph.

A more general version of the TSP is the vehicle routing problem(VRP) in which there are multiple vehicles. In most cases, VRPs have constraints: for example, vehivles might have capacities for the maximum weight or volume of items they can carry, or drivers might be required to visit locations during specified time windows, in this case use the following cases for solve:
- Traveling salesman problem: the classic routing problem
- Vehicle Routing Problem: A generalization of the TSP with various vehicles
- VRP with capacity constraints: the vehicles have maximum capacities for the items
- VRP with time windows: The vehicles must visit the locations in specified the interval
- VRP with resource contraints: sush as space or personnel to load and unload vehicles at the depot
- VRP with dropped visits: the vehicles are not required all location

**Traveling Salesman Problem**
Shows who to solve the TSP

there are various ways for resolve problems in this style, the control is the mode for resolve this situation and mode with this manage control

**Vehicle Routing Problem**
in VRP the goal is to find optimal routes for multiples vehicles visiting a set of locations.

A better way to define optimal routes is to minimize the length of the longest single route among all vehicles this is the right definition if the goal is to complete all deliveries as soon as possible.

- Capacity contraints -> pick up items at each location
- Time windows -> each location must be visited within a specific time window

We need the distence of matrix for solve that problems

**Manhattan distance**
Distance between two points (x1,x2) and (y1,y2) is defined to be |x1 - y1| + |x2 - y2|

[manhattan implementing](https://gist.github.com/vmgabriel/2cd48fe2b560a35e290a393d23abdd80 "manhattan implementing")

## Installation
Load with:
```bash
make dependencies
```

if the installation is for production then:
```bash
make dependencies ENV=production
```

## Load
for run program:
- previous install dependencies

```bash
make run
```

if the run is for production then
```bash
make run ENV=production
```

Commit message:

feat: google matrix solver - not api

README.md, after:

# Or Tool Tutorial 1

## Description
The OR tools is a solver problem of optimization:

- Vehicle Routing: The most important for deliver packages
- Scheduling: problem for complex tasks
- Bin Packing: Pack as many objects

This use algorithms to narrow down the search set for find the optimal.

Problems that solve:

- Contraint Programming: Solve mathematics problems.
- Linear and mixed-integer program: Problems based into configuration of single problems.
- Vehicle Routing: Library for indentifying best vehicle routes given constraints.
- Graph algorithms: short path into graph

This find the best solution out of large set of possible solutions

Each of optimization problems bas the following elements:
- The objective: The quantity to optimize -> for example minimize cost.
- The contraints: Restrictions on the set of possible solutions.

The first step for solve an optimization problem is identifying this two elements.

1. Optimizing minimize

For each language, the basic steps for setting up and solving a problem are the same:
- Import the required libraries.
- Declare the solver.
- Create the variables.
- Define the constraints.
- Define the objective function.
- Invoke the solver and display the results.


**Vehicle Routing**
One of the  most important application of optimization is vehicle routing the goal is to find the best routes for a fleet of vehicles visiting a set of locations.

The most famous routing problem is the Traveling Salesman Problem(TSP): This find the shortest route for slaesman who needs to visit customers at different locations and return to locations and return to the starting point. This can represented by a graph.

A more general version of the TSP is the vehicle routing problem(VRP) in which there are multiple vehicles. In most cases, VRPs have constraints: for example, vehivles might have capacities for the maximum weight or volume of items they can carry, or drivers might be required to visit locations during specified time windows, in this case use the following cases for solve:
- Traveling salesman problem: the classic routing problem
- Vehicle Routing Problem: A generalization of the TSP with various vehicles
- VRP with capacity constraints: the vehicles have maximum capacities for the items
- VRP with time windows: The vehicles must visit the locations in specified the interval
- VRP with resource contraints: sush as space or personnel to load and unload vehicles at the depot
- VRP with dropped visits: the vehicles are not required all location

**Traveling Salesman Problem**
Shows who to solve the TSP

there are various ways for resolve problems in this style, the control is the mode for resolve this situation and mode with this manage control

**Vehicle Routing Problem**
in VRP the goal is to find optimal routes for multiples vehicles visiting a set of locations.

A better way to define optimal routes is to minimize the length of the longest single route among all vehicles this is the right definition if the goal is to complete all deliveries as soon as possible.

- Capacity contraints -> pick up items at each location
- Time windows -> each location must be visited within a specific time window

We need the distence of matrix for solve that problems

**Manhattan distance**
Distance between two points (x1,x2) and (y1,y2) is defined to be |x1 - y1| + |x2 - y2|

[manhattan implementing](https://gist.github.com/vmgabriel/2cd48fe2b560a35e290a393d23abdd80 "manhattan implementing")

**Google Distance Matrix API**
For create the distance matrix for any set of locations defined by addresses, or by latitudes and longitudes.

[Documentation of Google Distance Matrix](https://developers.google.com/maps/gmp-get-started#create-billing-account "Configuration of Google Distance Matrix API")


## Installation
Load with:
```bash
make dependencies
```

if the installation is for production then:
```bash
make dependencies ENV=production
```

## Load
for run program:
- previous install dependencies

```bash
make run
```

if the run is for production then
```bash
make run ENV=production
```
